ACS Center for Lab Safety logo.
Best Practices.
Weighing Solids.
A student scrolls through an SDS on a laptop and writes in a notebook.
A student puts on a white lab coat over jeans and a long-sleeved sweater.
They button it up fully.
Photographs of an eyewash station, a safety shower, a fire extinguisher, a fire pull, a fire blanket, a first-aid kit, an emergency evacuation plan, and a chemical hood.
The student puts on safety goggles.
A segment title reads "Collecting the Solid for Weighing."
On a lab bench are two capped plastic primary chemical containers and a beaker holding three spatulas.
A student wearing a lab coat and gloves holds a small, empty glass beaker labeled "Copper (II) sulfate pentahydrate" up to camera and then places it on the bench.
The student holds up the first primary container, showing the manufacturer's label for "Sodium thiosulfate pentahydrate." They shake a finger to indicate it is the wrong chemical for the demonstration.
They then hold up the second primary container, labeled "Copper (II) sulfate pentahydrate," and give a thumbs-up.
An overhead shot of the student uncapping the primary container of copper (II) sulfate pentahydrate and using the spoon of a metal spatula to slowly transfer a small amount of the blue powdered solid from the primary container into the labeled glass beaker. The student inserts the end of the spatula into the beaker before tipping out the solid.
After transferring the solid, the student places the spatula back in the beaker holding other spatulas and screws the cap onto the primary container.
A segment title reads "Setting Up for the Procedure."
The student has placed the beaker of copper (II) sulfate pentahydrate next to an analytical balance on the work bench.
The balance has a digital display and a weighing chamber with glass doors on both sides that encloses the weighing pan.
The student places an empty glass beaker labeled "Waste" next to the balance.
The student places a box of lab wipes, a beaker holding a metal spatula, a beaker holding a cleaning brush, and a weigh boat next to the balance.
They pick up the beaker of copper (II) sulfate pentahydrate to visually inspect the solid.
The student slides open the side doors of the weighing chamber and uses the brush to gently sweep debris from the weighing pan into the beaker labeled "Waste."
A segment title reads "Balance Display."
A close-up of the digital balance display.
Called out on the display in the video are the words "Max 220 grams," the weight, which is shown to four decimal places (currently 0.0000 grams), and onscreen buttons labeled "0" and "T." To the left of the display is a recessed bubble for levelling the balance. In a close-up, this bubble is shown to be centered.
A segment title reads "Choosing a Weighing Container."
The student holds up the weigh boat. They also show to camera a weigh paper and an empty test tube held upright in a glass beaker, before moving these items to the side.
The student picks up the weigh boat, opens the side door of the weighing chamber, places the weigh boat on the weighing pan, and closes the side door. After waiting, they press the balance display to tare the balance. They then open the side door, remove the weigh boat and place it back on the bench, and close the side door again.
A segment title reads "Weighing the Solid."
The student uses the metal spatula to transfer around half a spoonful of solid from the secondary container to the weigh boat. They place the spatula back into the secondary container. They open the side door of the weighing chamber, place the weigh boat on the weighing pan, and close the door.
The student picks up the secondary container, opens the side door of the balance, and uses the spatula to transfer two small scoops of solid to the weigh boat on the balance. They then close the side door and wait for the new weight to stabilize on the display.
The student picks up the labeled waste beaker, opens the side door of the balance, and uses the spatula to transfer two small scoops of the solid into the waste container. They then close the side door and wait for the new weight to stabilize on the display.
A lab notebook with the handwritten note "Desired: 0.5000 grams." Below this, the student writes "Collected: 0.5003 grams."
The student opens the side door of the weighing chamber, removes the weigh boat, and places it on the bench. They then visually inspect the balance for debris before closing the door.
A segment title reads "Disposing of Waste."
The glass waste beaker containing a small amount of the copper (II) sulfate pentahydrate sits on the bench.
The student holds a capped plastic bottle labeled "Laboratory Waste, copper (II) sulfate, 10/06" up to camera. They unscrew the cap and pour the solid from the beaker into the waste container, tapping the bottom of the beaker to ensure all the solid is transferred. They screw the cap back onto the bottle.
A cupboard labeled "Hazardous Waste Satellite Accumulation Area."
ACS Center for Lab Safety logo.